Repent, brother.
Accept Allah's word
and proclaim Muhammad
as his messenger.
Should've spoken to you more
about martyrdom.
If I had, you'd be laughing
at these fuckers.
You'd be saying, "Through you,
I gain entrance into paradise."
We're not afraid to die.
That's why we're gonna win.
I'm not afraid, either.
Do your job.
Doug's here.
- Hey, don't forget this.
- Oh.
- Gosh, thank you, Janet.
- Have fun.
Thanks.
Guess what I got her.
Not a burka.
Now, that would be funny.
No.
A sexy gold anklet
and some belly-dancing lessons.
Oh, you didn't.
It's a joke.
He's gonna kill her.
It's not for him.
Anyway, he's supposed to be
an American now.
There's got to be
a sense of humor
buried under that beard
somewhere.
You talking about him or me?
Whoa. - LIZ: Watch out!
- Geez.
- Christ.
What the hell?
Oh, my God.
Excuse me.
That was a little reckless,
don't you think?
And?
That's a Maserati GranTurismo.
Asshole.
If I had that,
people would like me.
Ha!
Infidels. You're late.
Javid.
How have you been,
my infidel friend?
- How are you, Javid?
- Is Liz too busy
fighting the war on terror,
you can't come
to Meena's graduation on time?
Oh, knock it off, Javid.
- I do trade policy.
- No, no, no, no.
You're a spy,
and everybody here knows
you're a spy, so...
and it's fine.
- Come on in.
- Thanks.
There she is,
the most beautiful graduate.
Thank you for coming.
Thank you so much.
That's for you. Congratulations.
Oh, my God, that's so sweet.
- Thank you.
- It's okay.
Open it later. It's girl stuff.
- Shh.
- Oh, I get it.
Well, he has his secrets,
and we have ours.
Wow. Congratulations.
- Oh, am I sitting here?
- Doug, my brother,
it's such an honor
to speak at Al-Azhar.
What did I tell you, huh?
I told you the blog post
would get
a positive reaction
in the Middle East.
Huh? What did I say?
Oh, you-you told me.
Thank you. And, Liz,
everyone is extremely proud
of your husband here.
Such an honor he has received.
So he must go to Cairo, okay?
Yeah, he must.
See, guys?
Faith is what unites us.
- That's right.
- And this is what Doug's post is about.
And you would understand if you
went with him to church, huh?
Mm-hmm.
Javid, you know, you can always
go to church with me, too.
Yeah, right.
Of course. That's a good one.
Funny fellow here, huh?
Very funny.
What?
Who's the young guy over there?
- The one with the tattoos?
- Yeah.
He wants to date Meena.
Can you believe such a thing?
Look, I seriously would not
let him in my house.
Never mind.
There.
Thank you for coming, seriously.
- You're welcome.
- Means a lot.
Okay, everyone.
I would like to make a toast.
With water and soda only, okay?
Except for those infidels.
I see you.
You're drinking alcohol.
To my daughter, Meena.
May Allah guide your future path
in our beautiful,
adopted America.
Beh salamati, Meena.
Beh salamati.
Cheers, guys.
Have a seat.
Food time.
- Yes, yes!
- I'm starving.
"Doug, my very good
infidel friend.
You're such an infidel,
but I tolerate you."
You never liked him much anyway.
But I love his daughter.
And her mother.
She plays a dutiful Muslim wife...
don't you think?... but she's
got fire and resilience in her.
You'd have to
to put up with that bullshit.
It's a software company.
And Javid's the only guy
at work I can talk to
about international events,
politics.
Everybody else is
just a bunch of geeks
who want to talk...
software.
Yeah, he's fine.
He's just always playing
the big shot.
- He's so over the top.
- Mm-hmm.
Hello?
Hello. Is anyone there?
Liz?
Soheila?
Is Meena there?
Meena here? No. Why?
She left the party
with her boyfriend.
He was supposed to
drop her off hours ago.
- I'm worried, Liz.
- You're worried.
I want to call the police,
but Javid won't let me.
Well, you know, he probably
just wants to give it
a bit more time.
It's, uh...
it's graduation, Soheila.
It's, you know...
They party. They celebrate.
It's a big night.
- Give it a chance, yeah?
- Okay.
Okay. Night. Bye.
Welcome to America.
Graduation.
Javid?
Shut up, Soheila!
Hello?
Soheila?
Uh, I will. I will.
Something's not right.
What is it?
We called 911.
They're expecting you, sir.
- Hi. Excuse me.
- Hi.
You Javid's friend?
- Yes.
- Come on in.
Stay here.
- You work with Javid, right?
- Mm-hmm.
I'm glad you're here.
You're gonna witness
how my client's rights
- are being violated.
- This is my home!
- A good Muslim home!
- It's good you're here.
- Hey, Javid.
- Doug.
It's okay.
Look at what they're doing, man,
just, like, treating us
like criminals.
Mr. Rawlins?
- Yes.
- I'm Sergeant Knebel, Fairfax Police.
Yeah, this man is my friend.
- He knows me, and he will tell you the truth.
- That's great.
Can you tell your client
to back off, please?
Can I talk to you
for a second, please?
Give me a second.
- Have you seen Mr. Hosseini's daughter?
- Wait here.
- Uh, earlier this evening...
- Don't answer that.
It's immaterial.
Meena's not here.
You don't know
where she is, right?
- Neither do the Hosseinis.
- Excuse me.
Your presence here
is entirely unwarranted.
No one here called you.
The man's Muslim, so you enter
his house without a warrant,
- without permission.
- Can you please take her?
- Thank you.
- Islamophobia.
You better not lay a hand on me.
Where is your warrant?
Do not touch me.
Soheila.
She let us in.
Look, um...
these are good people.
I've known Mr. Hosseini
for some time now.
Have you ever seen him exhibit
extremist behaviors
or attitudes?
What?
No.
Come with me.
Come on.
I've read your blog, by the way.
Good stuff.
Thanks.
Recruitment videos.
Beheadings.
Islamic rah-rah shit.
He's running
a terrorist nerve center
or recruitment website.
Or am I just an Islamophobe?
I'm going in there.
You don't have the right
to restrain me.
Excuse me. I am his lawyer.
Now, let me through.
Fruit of
the poisoned vine, my friend.
You have no legal right
to be here.
Everything in this room
is inadmissible.
Go ahead. Keep going.
Mr. Rawlins, I'm so sorry.
I'm sure you're aware,
this is a gross violation
of your friend Mr. Hosseini's
Fourth Amendment rights.
Mr. Rawlins? Mr. Rawlins?
- Get in the car.
- Did you see Meena?
No.
Is she still missing?
Get in the car, Liz.
My Uber's outside, honey.
I'm leaving, Liz.
What's this?
Knocking-around shoes
with a twist.
See this?
You type your message...
an e-mail, text, tweet,
whatever, okay?
- Mm-hmm.
- Type your secret message.
Then you put this in the drive.
See it highlight?
- Mm-hmm.
- Then you delete it.
Now you write something
mundane, something like:
"Awfully sticky here in Cairo."
Listen to this. It's important.
- Then you press "send."
- Okay.
To the rest of the world,
anyone who is trying to hack
into your messages,
they will read the mundane.
But from my end,
I can read your invisible text.
Okay? By accessing it
with my own drive.
So this is what you do
at the State Department.
- Mm-hmm.
- Who gave it to you? Samantha?
- Take it, please.
- No.
Take it.
You know, she's the one
that's got you paranoid.
Travel to Egypt
by high-profile Christians
is especially risky now.
That is the latest
travel warning.
So I'll be low-profile.
- Low to the ground. I mean...
- Bullshit.
You're a featured guest
at an international conference.
- Come on.
- Is it that important?
Wh-Why were you invited?
I don't know.
Okay.
This is how
you'll come off in Cairo:
a vanilla Christian,
ticket to Heaven punched,
with a big smile showing
how close you are to Jesus.
I am close to him.
Sorry that bothers you.
And if only those poor,
lost Muslims
could feel as happy inside
as you are.
You are so beautiful.
How'd you get so cynical?
I just keep thinking,
if we had a kid...
if we had a family,
you wouldn't be
running around the world
playing the holy apostle.
You'd have a reason
to stay home.
Now you're making this into
a much bigger deal than it is.
They don't answer their phone.
Their daughter's missing.
Javid is supposed to be
your friend.
He's supposedly your friend.
Supposedly.
As I've told you,
he won't talk to me anymore.
He knows what I saw
in that room.
Okay, and what
does that tell you?
He is the one that said,
"Go to Cairo.
Talk about the faith."
You're not suspicious?
I was played, okay?
I have to go.
Whatever you do, don't preach.
It's just who I am.
And I love you.
Okay, don't go. I'm asking you.
Don't go. Don't go.
I will call you.
Bye.
Liz.
Liz!
I'm never gonna set foot
in church again.
I don't want to see
those people.
Forget about those people.
Forget them.
Liz, I see him in you.
There's nothing in me.
I lost my last chance
at having a kid.
We both did.
Understand this.
I'm done with God.
And if you want to stay
married to me, understand this:
I'm done with God.
He's done with me.
Well, thank you very much.
I am so honored to be invited o
Al-Azhar University of Cairo,
Islam's seat of learning.
Not to talk about
what divides us
but what unites us.
We are
so honored to have you here.
I have been following your blog,
your writings.
You are amazing.
I am a huge fan.
You are here because you are
a man willing to speak honestly
about faith.
And I want you to talk to us
tonight about Jesus
and help us build bridges.
Well, thank you, Mustafa.
Um...
you know, the media,
the pundits, the dividers,
they tell us we're engaged
in a clash of civilizations
- between Islam and the West.
- Yeah.
That we're at war.
But I beg to differ.
The real clash is between
the Abrahamic religions
and modern secularism.
It's the secularists
that fear and hate us.
It is the secularists...
they preach the loudest
against religion.
So true. So true.
People say we Muslims
are living in the Dark Ages.
But the Dark Ages
weren't dark in Islam.
In the 1500s,
Islam was the richest,
most learned civilization
in the world.
And today,
we embrace technology,
modern advancements,
as you can see.
Westernization, no.
Modernization, yes.
Mm-hmm. Well...
But, cultural differences aside,
I'll go much deeper with you.
Islam and Christianity
share monotheism.
And despite our tensions
in the past and in the present,
we share Jesus.
Yes. Yes.
Jesus is considered
a messenger of God.
A holy and revered prophet.
Christians are unaware
of the fact
that we love Jesus Christ.
We love him.
Muslims accept his birth
to be that of a good man,
a great teacher,
one of God's miracles
through Virgin Mary...
or "Maryam."
Well, uh, Mustafa, um...
...since I'm here to talk,
- as you say, honestly...
- Yes.
...about Christianity, um...
He may have been a great teacher
and a good man...
...but he was so much more.
See...
How do I say this?
Oh, no, no, you don't.
He is God.
Um, uh, semantics.
We-we... we say "prophet."
Uh, that's what we say.
We say "prophet."
No, not semantics.
Jesus is God.
He said, "I am the way,
the truth and the life."
"And nobody comes to the Father
but by me."
"For God so loved the world
"that he gave
his only begotten son,
"that whosoever believeth in him
shall not perish
but have everlasting life."
You say you love Jesus.
Well, he loves you.
Well, we love him.
Of course, we...
we love Jesus Christ.
And he wants to be your god.
What are you doing?
Mr. Rawlins. Mr. Rawlins.
- Are you anti-Islam?
- Mr. Rawlins, are you aware
that Cairo broadcast
your appearance
to over 45 countries?
It's gone viral
in the Middle East.
Everyone is talking about it.
- How does this make you feel?
- Many are saying
you've crossed a line, that
you're preaching to Muslims.
- Can you comment?
- Mr. Rawlins!
Mr. Rawlins,
I need your comment.
I was asked about my faith.
I just said what I believed.
Give him way, please.
Give him way.
M-Mr. Rawlins,
one more question, please.
Mr. Rawlins,
have you read the Koran?
Yes, a friend of mine gave me
a copy, and I gave him a Bible.
- Have a nice day.
- Give him way, please.
Give him way. Give him way.
How many followers do you have?
Quite a show, mate.
Very impressive.
- Thank you.
- Yeah.
There I am watching telly
when, all of a sudden,
I see this milky white
upper-middle-class
American wanker
who reckons he can preach
to a billion Muslims.
Well, I was invited.
Not by me, mate.
Not by me.
Excuse me.
You really
did it this time, Doug.
You really stirred it up.
You're preaching.
It weirds people out.
Look, the reason
the talk caught fire
is because I said
what was unexpected.
But damn it, I was just
trying to be honest.
I-I was just trying to be real.
By the way, your friends
Javid and, uh, Soheila...
Come on, Liz.
They weren't your friends, too?
They've... they've moved out.
What?
They just vanished.
What about Meena?
Nothing. That's all I know.
Maybe you should
check in at work
and see if he's showed up there.
My guess is: likely not.
What about us, Liz?
Are we okay?
Who's there?
What?
Hold on.
Yeah?
Doug? What's going on?
Who's there?
Doug?
Doug!
What's going on? Doug!
Can you hear me?
Doug?
Doug, what's... what's going on?
Doug!
Can you hear me?
He's caused
an international incident.
He was kidnapped.
This is terrorism.
It's not his fault.
You got to get him out.
They're working on it, right?
The-the... the government...
the agency, I mean,
they're working on it.
We're getting
our fact pattern in order.
Fact pattern?
We'll get back to you.
Talk to no one.
Are we clear on that, Liz?
About a fact pattern? Yes.
Good.
Look around you.
You are in the middle
of fucking nowhere.
No one knows where you are.
And it's gonna stay that way.
We agree?
Do we fucking agree?
Yes.
Good.
You got a bed,
got a table, got a chair.
Look at you.
You're all set.
Toilet's down the hall.
Why am I here?
What sort of lunatic...
what sort of muppet...
comes to the Middle East
to convert Muslims?
Take him to the loo.
Mountains.
Baalbek.
Lebanon.
Hey. Hey.
Can you hear me?
Help me.
Oh, shit.
Hey, kid.
Yeah.
Hey.
Help me.
Can you...
Sweetheart, can you...
Can you get your mama?
Yeah.
Yeah. Get her.
Finish!
I got to... I'm almost...
I had to go real bad.
Mrs. Rawlins,
why did your husband go there?
Do you have anything
to do with this?
Has the State Department
been helping you?
Who would want to kidnap him?
Mrs. Rawlins,
do you care to comment?
- Mrs. Rawlins!
- Do you know who kidnapped him?
Mrs. Rawlins, do you know
about his whereabouts?
What are you hiding from us?
Well, why do you say that?
I mean, have we really
become that callous?
Is our government that uncaring?
Look, when
a prominent Christian blogger,
whose wife happens to work
at the State Department,
goes on his own free will
to appear on television
in the Middle East
and proselytize,
that's his business.
But when he gets kidnapped
for doing it,
don't expect
the United States government
to drop everything
and come to your rescue,
no matter who you are
or who your wife is.
You're famous, mate.
Internet is lit up. You're
the man of the fucking hour.
Been reading your blog.
Your musings
on Jesus the Christ,
going to church,
your little buddy at work.
What's his name?
The one that calls you Kuffs.
Kuffs?
Short for "kafir"... infidel.
- Javid?
- Javid.
Sounds Persian.
Fucking hate Persians.
I'm half Persian.
Luckily,
the other half's Kurdish.
This blog of yours...
personally, I don't see
any reason why it should stop.
You want me to...
- post my blog from here?
- Yeah.
Who's posted from captivity?
Mate, I'm setting you up
for a fucking Pulitzer.
I'll help you,
put it online for you.
Here's what I need, though.
I need your password.
Problem is, is then
you would be writing my blog,
not me.
Well, I'm not
a fucking idiot, am I?
So I'm not just gonna
hand you a laptop
and let you do what you want.
It's my blog.
All right.
That's fair.
Let me show you something.
Look at this.
See this plonker?
He didn't give me
his password, either.
So I took some electrodes,
and I fried his balls off.
Those electrical prods,
they really fuck
your fertility up.
Now, imagine if I apply those
to your teeth and gums.
Do you reckon your missus
would ever fuck you again?
Now, I'll be honest, man.
I don't... I don't love
the ultraviolence.
I'm more of an artist type,
aren't I?
Sensitive.
Anyway, give me your password,
or I'll fry
your little jelly beans.
No.
A no.
Okay.
Are you taking the piss?
Are you taking the fucking piss?!
No. No!
No.
We're here to power-drill
your kneecaps.
Cool with that?
No! No, no.
Wait, wait, wait. No.
- Password, please.
- O-Okay, okay, okay.
Uh, Liz, zero,
uh, nine, 19, forward slash, 85.
- Say again.
- Liz, zero!
Nine, 19,
forward slash, 85.
Look at that. We're in.
That wasn't so hard, was it?
Well, untie him, then.
How is he gonna write
with his hands tied?
You're gonna be
a sensation, mate.
First person who ever blogged
from captivity
in a Muslim cell.
What are you waiting for?
Come on. Chop-chop.
Can I get it to you
in the morning?
Please.
You said the magic word.
You saw that, didn't you?
You're a smart guy.
But not smart enough.
"You'll be a sensation, mate."
"Dude's being held
in a Muslim cell
and writes about it."
"You write the blog.
I'll post it."
What's that?
Don't worry.
It's not for your jelly beans.
This is for your laptop.
This represents my commitment
to your craft.
Now you can write
all the way through the night.
So, if you would just
leave me in peace,
I could get more work done.
Please.
Yeah.
You are fucking irritating,
you know that?
Actually, my wife says
the same thing.
She's a perceptive woman.
Do you think she'd mind
if you were dead?
Well, I certainly hope
she would, but who knows?
I want her to.
You smug piece of shit.
This is my fucking house.
You mind your manners
in my fucking house.
You understand me?
Sorry.
What's going on?
Has something happened
with Doug?
Why am I...
Before you go nuts on me,
I have news.
Our sources tell us
Doug was nabbed by Hezbollah,
that he's likely being held...
...somewhere in Lebanon.
Okay.
The Baalbek region is
a Hezbollah stronghold.
Hezbollah is trained
and equipped by Iran.
So, are there any discussions
or demands?
Is there a plan to get Doug out?
Our Operations Center
is in communication
with the Baalbek authorities,
the local police,
to keep an eye.
But you said it was
a Hezbollah stronghold.
Won't they just
give him back to them?
Baalbek is tiring of terrorism.
Thousands have died
fighting in Syria,
their finances have been frozen,
and the Lebanese
are growing weary.
They'll let us know
if they find anything.
Why am I locked out?
You feel like you're drowning,
so you grasp and lunge
for a lifeline.
There is no lifeline.
Yeah, I know that.
Really?
Let me give you an example.
Two Iranian Jews
were rounded up recently
by the Islamic Republic of Iran,
accused of being spies
for the Israeli Mossad.
Do you think the Israelis will
launch a raid to free them?
Not a chance.
The days of Entebbe
are long over.
You're not to call the CIA,
FBI, Homeland Security
or any other government agency
to inquire about your husband.
Is that understood?
I just can't...
The secretary is very concerned
about the press scrutiny
Doug's trip has brought
upon this department and you.
- He's my husband.
- Yes, he is.
Therefore, you need
a leave of absence.
It's for the best.
Good work.
Yeah, this will up your value.
Well done.
Over to the audience now.
So, I've done what you've asked.
When do you plan to let me go?
Let you go?
Nah, nah, we're just
getting started, mate.
Me and you have got
a lot to talk about.
Okay.
Let's talk.
Are you Hezbollah?
Am I Hezbollah?
Doesn't matter
what the fuck I am.
You're CIA, same as your bird.
- My bird?
- Your wife.
Your missus.
Your significant other.
She's CIA, and so are you.
She... she works trade policy.
Is that why she called the
police on the Hosseini home?
What?
Is that why she called the
police on the Hosseini home?
Is that why,
when you went there,
the police showed you
his fucking basement?
You're fucking CIA,
and so is your missus,
and the two of you set him up.
That's why I'm here?
Sort of.
You blew our prize operative.
I only went to Cairo
to keep a fucking eye on you,
then you get up
in front of two billion people
and try and convert them.
So the word comes down:
"He's dangerous. Pick him up."
Bring him outside.
It's tea.
Turkish tea.
It's really good.
Thank you.
My first memory in life was
clutching my grandmother's hand
as we were being chased
down Chingford High Street
by a bunch of neo-Nazi skinheads
throwing milk bottles
at our heads,
telling us to get the fuck out
of their country.
I was four, mate.
Messed me up for a while.
Desperately made me want
to fit in.
Then...
the big guy spoke to me.
He said, "Son, it's always
been this way."
Been Crusaders on horseback,
Gulf War, Afghanistan.
Chingford High Street.
This is me now throwing
milk bottles at your heads,
telling you get the fuck out
of our countries.
You started this holy war, mate.
We're gonna finish it.
What are you doing?
Give him his tea.
I'm gonna get you out of there.
I'll get you out of there, Doug.
Some bastard on the Internet
decoded Doug's message.
- What? Who?
- This fellow.
What's his name? Alias 9.
May have just given him
a death sentence.
Shit.
Oh, my God.
What did you do?
- What?
- What did you do?!
What did you fucking do?!
What did you do?!
Move. Move!
Leave him!
I'm Doug Rawlins.
Will you... will you help me?
My-my name is Doug...
Doug... Douglas Rawlins.
I'm an American.
I was kidnapped, and-and...
No. No.
Help. Help. Help.
Please, Officer.
- My name is Doug Rawlins.
- Who are you?
My name is Doug Rawlins.
I was kidnapped in Cairo.
- You are him? Do you have an identity card?
- Yeah, I am.
- I told you I was kidnapped!
- Let me see your...
Why-why would I have
an identity card?
I was kidnapped,
for crying out loud.
These are the men!
No! Don't let 'em take me!
Don't let 'em take me!
Oh, shit!
Somebody help! Somebody help.
I got bad news.
You're not going anywhere, sir.
Your time with me is gonna seem
like a fucking holiday.
Okay, just tell me
what they're saying.
Tell me, please.
He's either dead
or they've moved him somewhere.
Where?
Iran keeps coming up.
If they're not holding him,
they know where he is.
Iran's calling all the shots.
I should go.
A woman alone
in that part of the world?
- Liz, it's crazy.
- Well, I've got to do something.
It's dangerous.
And at minimum, if Doug is dead,
I can bring his body back.
Liz, don't go
and get yourself killed.
I can't give up on him.
Mrs. Rawlins,
why are you here?
- Move! Move!
- Please.
- Move.
- Do you think your husband is here?
Mrs. Rawlins,
greetings from Tehran.
You will come with me
most immediately.
- Out of the way!
- Are you expecting help from
- the government?
- We're going to the Ministry of Justice.
Please, please, answer us!
Are you willing
to help Mrs. Rawlins
to find her husband?
What information
do you have for us, Ayatollah?
Any information at all,
Ayatollah Tehrani?
Please come over here.
In the name of God,
I'm here today
with nice American lady.
She's here in
the Islamic Republic
for assistance
in finding her husband.
We will assist her.
At present,
we do not know where he is.
Apparently,
he was on TV in Cairo.
What do you want from me?
What do you want?!
- What do you want?!
- He's an American
who has disappeared.
Maybe he runs away
from his wife.
I've heard of this before.
My husband
was kidnapped in Cairo.
He was taken to Lebanon.
We know nothing beyond that.
Absolutely nothing.
There are rumors
about this man's activities.
And Mrs. Rawlins works
for her government.
- Um, but what does all this...
- We must consider...
Sorry. What does all this matter
if you're not holding him?
It's a matter of justice.
Our intelligence services
are gathering information.
If they learn of anything...
- Please don't do this.
- ...we're willing to send
our forces to rescue him.
This is very risky for us.
But we do it because
we are compassionate.
We are merciful.
God, please. Stop.
I've done nothing wrong!
Dr. Tehrani, please...
Praise be to Allah.
Are you going to protect
Mrs. Rawlins?
May he show us
the righteous path
so that we may repel
the enemies of God
and the corrupt of the Earth.
Anything to say
about what you just heard?
Please, are you...
are you okay? Mrs. Rawlins.
Tell me what you want!
I'm Pierre Barthes,
South African Telemedia.
Maria. Maria Landi from Rome.
Yes, we interviewed
your husband in Cairo.
We've been following the case.
Yes, I saw you
at the Ministry of Justice.
We apologize for participating
in such a fraud,
but any publicity helps
your husband's case, right?
Yeah, sure.
We'd love to do one-on-ones
with you if that's possible.
Will you talk to us?
Oh, perhaps later.
I don't want to do anything
that might upset
the Iranian government
or harm Doug.
So, thank you.
Do you believe Doug's alive?
I know he is.
But how do you know?
I just know.
Okay.
So, what's your plan?
- Plan?
- Yes.
If he's still alive,
if he's here,
you need a plan.
You need help.
Leverage. Do you understand?
Otherwise, they'll use you
to their advantage,
- just like the press conference.
- What leverage?
I came here to plead
for his life.
That's it.
That's my plan.
Where are you going?
I can't just sit in my room.
Be careful out there.
Don't talk to anybody.
- Do not make appointments.
- Okay. Thank you, thank you.
Welcome to the bazaar, lady.
Welcome to Tehran.
Thank you.
We can help you with problem.
He's here, your husband.
How do you know that?
Have you seen him?
Yes.
I have a photo.
You have a photograph of Doug?
A current one?
I would be very grateful
for something like that.
You'll pay, yes?
Yes, I can pay. Yes.
Could you send it to my...
my phone or my computer?
Come. I show you first.
You pay, then I send you.
- Come where?
- Nearby.
Lady, this photo is proof
your husband is here and alive.
Come with me.
Come.
Is here, the photo.
Come on.
Um, can you bring it out?
Sorry?
Come.
- Come on.
- Oh, forget it.
Wait, wait, wait, wait!
Just wait. Just calm down.
Be cool.
It's all right. It's all right.
We're your friends.
We're not with them.
We're friends.
We won't harm you.
Here.
Thank you.
Who are you?
This is my husband Fereydoun.
I'm Fariba.
We are Christians.
We read Doug's blog.
We've been following you.
You're safe now.
You're kidding me.
You are okay?
Please, there are, uh,
some people here
who want to meet you.
And... and we have food.
Hello. Welcome.
Hello.
Please. We have pastry and tea.
And we have news.
This is Aziz.
A guard at Prison 209
here in Tehran.
Prison 209?
It's maximum security
for special prisoners.
Political prisoners.
Aziz...
I am Muslim, not Christian.
I'm here to resist
the government.
I have guards with me,
also Muslim.
Your husband,
he's been there for one week.
Please have a seat.
Um...
th-the press don't know.
Well, the-the government
hasn't said anything.
It is very risky,
but he will try to take a photo
and send it to you.
I will give him your number.
Would you like to write
a message to Doug?
Oh, yes.
Yeah.
Um...
Please.
Thank you.
And...
Doug, he's, uh...
He's-he's okay.
Um, it's very kind of you to...
...to show your concern.
Thank you.
This is our church.
We meet here regularly.
Oh.
There's a Christian movement
inside Iran,
led by women
tired of being victims.
How about you, your faith?
Uh, I'm, um...
I'm tired. I just...
I want to go back
to my hotel room.
I understand.
- Get some rest.
- Oh.
Come on. Let's get you a cab.
No. No, don't hurt me.
Don't hurt me, please.
I'm the one who told 'em
not to hurt you, mate.
Doug...
you're swimming
in an ocean of shit.
Time to get back
on the boat, mate.
There's no fighting 'em.
I just want to...
go home.
Of course you do, mate.
Of course you do.
They beat you hard enough,
you lose your grip,
you lose your faith.
Lose everything.
Doug, listen to me.
The only way out of here
is to tell them
what they want to hear.
Repudiate Cairo,
admit you're a spy,
they'll let you go.
I promise I'll make that happen.
'Cause they're not gonna stop.
Tell your high priest...
...to go fuck himself.
Fair enough.
No one knows you're here.
As far as the world
is concerned,
you're dead and buried, so...
your only hope is to come clean.
Otherwise, you'll rot.
Speak, Lord. I'm listening.
I'm right here.
Lord...
where are you?
I don't know where
to find you right now.
Thank you.
Doug, I'm here in Tehran.
I know where you are.
I'm letting the world know
so they'll let you go.
I know you're alive, Doug.
I'll come for you soon.
Love, Liz.
You're not...
you're not going out
dressed like that, are you?
Half naked?
Starkers?
What would your husband think?
Is this you?
Hmm?
You responsible for this?
Look at me when
I'm fucking talking to you!
Is this you?
Get your clothes on.
- What am I doing here?
- Shut up and listen to me.
Tell your old man to come clean.
Tell him to say
exactly what it is
they want him to say,
or it's gonna end very badly.
Do you understand?
- Okay.
- Good girl.
Doug.
What have they done to you?
You bastards.
What have they done to him?
- Ah, he looks lovely.
- Look at him.
- He can barely walk.
- Shh.
- It's all right.
- Doug, I'm sorry.
- I'm sorry.
- I'm sorry, too,
- but you shouldn't have come.
- I'm sorry.
We have a chance.
That's enough. That's a lot.
Sit down, please.
Get comfy.
Are you okay?
Smile for the cameras.
I apologize, honey,
for all of it.
My ego was on overdrive,
thinking I could save the world.
You were invited.
No, I was stupid,
selfish, prideful.
- No, you weren't.
- I blew it.
This is what you do.
- You-you talk to people.
- I know.
- You exchange ideas.
- Dumb ideas.
Yeah, it is.
It's stupid sometimes.
It's...
I want more time with him.
Where are you taking her?
It's all right, mate.
She's just going to the hotel.
- Where are you taking her?
- She'll be fine.
Liz, get out.
You got to get out of here.
- No, not unless you come with me.
- Liz, listen to me.
Get out of here today.
- Not unless you come with me.
- Come on.
- Get out of here.
- Not unless...
You have to leave this country.
Not unless you come with me.
Whoa, whoa.
Hey, hey, hey.
Mr. Rawlins.
Welcome to Iran.
We're putting you on trial.
What for?
We're announcing to the world
your appearance in Cairo
was a pretext
for spying activities.
The evidence is overwhelming.
We have excellent witnesses.
I'm sure you do.
We're going to broadcast
the trial.
The world will see
how guilty you are,
as will the Christians in Iran
who need a lesson in manners.
You will confess
before the cameras.
Let's keep it moving, shall we?
Javid!
You know what's happened
to Doug.
You know he's innocent.
You-you can tell them the truth.
You're his friend.
Yeah, that's why I'm here, Liz.
To testify.
Testify?
At his trial.
I'm their primary witness.
For the Iranian government?
For my government.
But at least you know
how to say "Iran" now.
Not "I-ran."
You Americans.
Spend decades
in the Middle East,
and you say "I-ran" and "I-raq."
What is this?
Intentional stupidity?
No, seriously,
I really want to know.
'Cause you act as if
nothing happened in Virginia.
What?
You tried to get me
arrested there.
No. No, no, no, that's not true.
Where is Soheila?
Where is Meena?
My wife is here.
And she doesn't leave the house,
like it should have been
in America.
Then none of this
would have happened.
And Meena?
I don't know that name.
She's your daughter.
I have no daughter.
Why? Because of that boy?
No.
Because of her shame.
I had no choice.
Did you get what you needed?
Shit.
We're here to render judgment
in the case
of Mr. Douglas Rawlins
for the charge of spying
against Iranians
in America, Egypt
and Lebanon.
Mr. Rawlins,
you have been remanded
in custody,
and you must face justice.
Justice?
- Justice?
- Justice!
I've been kidnapped.
I have been beaten.
I've been tortured, threatened.
By your men.
Deprived of all
my civil liberties.
Now, you're gonna do
what you damn well please,
but don't decorate
your brutality
with legal and divine fiction.
The evidence thus far
is most compelling,
but we demand to hear it
from your mouth:
Are you a spy?
I am not a spy, sir.
You work in Washington, D.C.
You have government contracts.
You have clearance.
And yet you deny any
spying activity whatsoever?
Yes, sir.
I deny it.
Your name, please.
Javid Hosseini.
Tell us how you know
the defendant.
I worked side by side
with Mr. Rawlins
in a software company in Fairfax
called Innovative Solutions.
Innovative Solutions was engaged
in contracts
with the U.S. government,
and Doug was actually doing
classified research,
most of which was about Iran.
And I've brought
some of it here today.
That's bullshit.
Mr. Abolhassan.
- Mr. Rawlins, please.
- Bullshit.
Silence!
You may continue.
So, looking further
into the matter,
it became clear to me
that Mr. Douglas
and the whole company
was engaged
in spying activities
against my country,
and I, as a patriot...
I had to act even if it put
- me and my family in danger.
- Patriot?
'Cause this is what
noble citizens do.
You're a coward.
Suddenly, the police
are invading my house.
They-they went
through the whole house.
Every room.
Trying to prove that
I was a spy against America.
All of the neighbors
were watching.
It was extremely humiliating.
My daughter...
My daughter committed suicide
from the shame
they caused us that day.
You whacked your own kid.
No, you killed her.
And now I just want...
I just want
the world to know that this is
th-the man that killed
my small...
my little angel,
my little daughter.
You're crying
'cause of your guilt.
M-Meena's dead
because of you and Liz.
I just want justice
for my daughter.
Nothing more.
So much guilt.
She was the only thing I had.
Will the defendant rise?
The court has no choice
but to rule in this case.
The evidence is sufficient.
It's overwhelming.
It is clear you are
an American spy.
Mr. Douglas Rawlins,
the verdict upon you is guilty,
and the sentence is death
by firing squad.
Inshallah!
- Allahu Akbar!
Mrs. Rawlins. Mrs. Rawlins.
- Honey, listen to me.
- Oh, my God.
Listen to me. Listen.
Don't stick around
for any more of this.
You have to go.
No, I want to stay with you.
Excuse me, um...
The grand inquisitor, uh,
wishes a word.
Mr. Douglas, Mrs. Rawlins,
it is not too late.
Too... too late for what?
We can make an agreement.
What are you talking about?
You can escape the death penalty
by making a full confession
on video.
Everyone will know
it's under duress.
All the better reason.
You have nothing to lose
and your life to gain.
No way.
Now that we're done with that,
my wife needs to go home,
and I'd like to spend
a few minutes with her.
If you don't mind.
This is it.
I need you to go home.
No, no, I didn't come here
to watch you die
and go home alone. No.
You will never do
what I ask, will you?
And break a habit?
Goodbye.
- No.
- Okay.
Nice day, innit?
I mean, if it has to be a day,
might as well be a nice one.
You know I'm just
following orders, right?
This wasn't my idea.
Sure.
Anything else I can do for you?
I don't know.
Maybe a...
a bulletproof vest?
Repent, brother.
Accept Allah's word
and proclaim Muhammad
as his messenger.
Should've spoken to you more
about martyrdom.
If I had, you'd be laughing
at these fuckers.
You'd be saying, "Through you,
I gain entrance into paradise."
We're not afraid to die.
That's why we're gonna win.
I'm not afraid, either.
Do your job.
I am so proud of you.
You did not shit your pants,
did you?
You guys are assholes.
Yep.
- Hello?
- Liz, it's Maria.
- They're coming for you.
- Maria?
Get out now. We're outside.
Come on! Come on!
Hurry up!
Come on, come on, come on.
What's this?
What's going on?
Watch it!
Down!
Down, down, down, down, down!
Stay down.
Who are they?
Local militia. Who knows?
You're a trophy now, Liz.
We're clear now.
Go, go, go, go, go.
What's this?
Are these guys with you?
What-what's going on?
We have men on the inside
of Prison 209.
People that you've met.
We've been preparing something.
A rescue.
A rescue for Doug?
Are you with us?
I want to get Doug out,
of course, but I...
I need to know who you are.
- We are Mossad.
- Mossad?
Oh, shit.
Why would Israeli intelligence
care about Doug?
We have two men... Iranians...
being held in 209.
Doug has met them.
We want to get them out,
and in the process,
we'll rescue Doug.
That way, his rescue
becomes our cover.
So, Doug and I are your front?
No.
Look.
I'm gonna tell you something.
If you ever repeat it,
I'll deny it.
The United States government
is aware of
and fully supports this action.
So... so, you want me to go
into that prison?
Yes.
Why would they let me in?
Because you're gonna tell them
that you're gonna
convince Doug to confess
in order to save his life.
If we may find a moment
when he will be with you
inside of the visitors room,
we can finally move.
Without you, all it is
is conversation.
What do you need me to do?
You'll stay here tonight
with Maria.
It's safe.
Tomorrow, we move.
It's visitors day.
There'll be a mob
at the main gate.
Some are our people.
The rest are Muslim women
who want their men out.
Uh, Liz Rawlins.
The coronavirus has spread
through the prison.
The inmates, they want out, to.
This is a political prison.
Only guards in the towers
have firearms.
We're planning a diversion
to mask their ability to see,
to give us time to do
what we need to do.
Guards on the ground
in the cellblocks
only have nightsticks.
We can pull this off,
but you have to do
exactly as I say.
Get my boy to confess.
Do you ever shut up?
What are you still doing here?
- Sit down, Doug.
- I told you to leave, damn it.
- Back to my cell, please.
- Doug. Doug!
- No.
- Doug.
- What?
- Sit down.
Why are you here?
We're getting out of here.
What?
It's gonna be okay.
Come on! Come on!
Sit down!
- Sit down!
- What was that?
Come here.
Quickly.
Go, go, go, go!
Open the gate! Open the gate!
Get out! Come on!
Come on, come on!
Get out, guys! Come on!
Come now.
- We're with you.
- Good.
- Let's go.
- Please.
Is there a plan here,
or are we winging it?
We're winging it.
Magid!
Come on. In the van.
In the van. In the van!
- Come on!
- Dawood! Hamid! Come on!
Come on! Here, come on!
Yes, come on! Here!
Go, go, go, go, go!
Hey!
Go!
How are we getting out
of the country?
Two helicopters.
One out of the city,
another waiting in the desert.
- What about your people?
- What about 'em?
They're going another route.
They're behind us.
Damn it. Go, go, go!
Stop!
- What's this?
- Underground caves.
Go now!
Come on, Liz.
- Liz!
- Back to the van now!
- My wife!
- There's no going back!
- You know what to do.
- Yeah.
Go, go, go, go, go!
Go!
Is Doug here?
Where's Pierre?
He-he didn't make it.
What about Doug?
I'm not sure.
That helicopter is leaving,
and it's my job
to put you on it!
- I'm not going without Doug.
- Come on!
Go!
Please, Liz, it's my job
to save your life.
Doug! Doug.
Come on!
- Oh, thank God.
- Thank God.
We made it.
- You okay?
- You're here.
Jeep!
- Go! Go!
- Stay down! Stay down!
- Liz!
- Doug.
Doug.
Come with me! Liz!
You take this shit
too seriously, mate.
Let's go.
Let's go. Come on!
Come on, honey! Come on!
Get in.
There's reports
from the Middle East
that American Doug Rawlins,
recently sentenced to death by
the Islamic Republic of Iran,
has escaped the country
in a mass prison break.
We're cutting now
to a press conference,
we believe from Amman, Jordan.